German is one of the most popular languages to learn in Europe. According to Eurostat (23 September 2022), about 21% of all students at the upper secondary general and vocational education level in the EU study German as their secondary language.
In the project of mine I wanted to dive into the available job positions on the Pracuj.pl website to find out what jobs are mostly associated with the German language, and what potential career paths are available for students who aspire to learn German.
  The initial code was written in Python, using BeatifulSoup4 and lxml for HTML parsing libraries. The information and data were initially scraped from the website Pracuj.pl using simple algorithm and then transformed into a text file for a further analysis. 
The querying and analysis of data was implemented in MySQL, in which the main jobs were outlined: “Customer Service”, “SAP positions”, “Manager or Team Lead”, “Sales”, “Data”, “HR”, “Finance” and “Engineering”. The search and consequent filtering were done using the MySQL functionality, by implement similar words search for filtration. The additional difficulty presented the Polish naming of the positions. Instead of “Customer Service”, there was “Obsluga Klienta” and instead of “Engineer” there was “Ingyner”, etc. The problem was overcome by including additional filtration for “polish named positions”.
Afterwards, the count of all the named jobs was undertaken, and separate table “final table” was created for visualization.
The visualization was then done in Python, using the Matplotlib library. The pie chart was deemed most suitable for this analysis(can be seen in the figure_jobs.png).
 
From the table, we can see that the most positions are related to the team leading areas. The second place takes Customer service, and third being engineer positions. I have also included the “SAP related positions”, as the software of SAP was developed in Germany, and I have anticipated that there would be quite a few such positions. This turned out to be true, as about 6,9% of all jobs are SAP related.  
	Surprisingly, employment that entail conversing with potential clients account for only 25.5 percent of all roles (Customer Service + Sales), whereas technical jobs (engineering, data, SAP, and accounting) account for 41.7%.  This demonstrates that, while the primary goal of language acquisition is communication with others, the study leads us to the conclusion that around half of all professions are technical in nature rather than communication-oriented.
